README.md, before:

## SDXL-Based Recursive Stylized Mosaic Generation

This project generates stylized recursive photomosaics using Latent Diffusion Models. It constructs a macro image and procedurally generates micro-tiles to match the local color palette, creating a coherent multi-scale image.

### 1. Environment Setup

Install the required dependencies using pip:

```pip install -r requirements.txt```


### 2. Configuration

Open ```config.py``` to adjust generation parameters:

- **Set Tile Style**: Change ```TILE_STYLE``` to one of the supported modes:
    - "FLOWERS"
    - "ANIME"
    - "FISH"
- **Grid Size**: Adjust ```GRID_SIZE``` (Default: 64). Increasing this improves macro detail but increases generation time
- **Palette Size**: Adjust ```PALETTE_SIZE``` (Default: 64). Reducing this (e.g., to 16) speeds up the process significantly.

### 3. Execution

Run the main script to start the generation process.
Note: The first run will automatically download the SDXL model from Hugging Face.

```python main.py```

Commit message:

Enhance README with visuals and pipeline explanation
Added visual results and technical pipeline details to README.

README.md, after:

## SDXL-Based Recursive Stylized Mosaic Generation

This project generates stylized recursive photomosaics using Latent Diffusion Models. It constructs a macro image and procedurally generates micro-tiles to match the local color palette, creating a coherent multi-scale image.
## 🖼️ Visual Result

### Macro Scene (Input)
![Macro Scene](output_samples/ANIME/scene_0_macro.png)
*A high-resolution scene generated by SDXL to establish global semantic and chromatic context.*

### Assembled Photomosaic (Output)
![Assembled Mosaic](output_samples/ANIME/scene_0_final_mosaic.png)
*The final mosaic where pixels are replaced by generated tiles, maintaining global coherence while revealing micro-objects upon closer inspection.*

--- 
## 🛠️ Technical Pipeline
The creation process follows a four-stage pipeline:

1.  **Macro Generation**: SDXL generates a $1024 \times 1024$ macro scene to establish global semantic context.
2.  **Color Quantization**: The image is downsampled (typically $64 \times 64$) and quantized using **K-Means Clustering** to create a reusable palette of dominant colors.
3.  **Conditional Tile Synthesis**: For each palette color, SDXL generates style-specific micro-tiles (e.g., "Flowers," "Fish," or "Anime") using color-conditioned prompts. 
    * **Statistical Filtering**: Tiles are filtered by standard deviation to ensure they are visually clear and neither too flat nor too chaotic.
4.  **Assembly & Color Transfer**: Tiles are mapped to the grid. A **mean-shift color transfer** algorithm adjusts each tile to the precise local tonality of the macro patch for seamless integration.

---
## 🚀 How to Reproduce
### 1. Environment Setup

Install the required dependencies using pip:

```pip install -r requirements.txt```


### 2. Configuration

Open ```config.py``` to adjust generation parameters:

- **Set Tile Style**: Change ```TILE_STYLE``` to one of the supported modes:
    - "FLOWERS"
    - "ANIME"
    - "FISH"
- **Grid Size**: Adjust ```GRID_SIZE``` (Default: 64). Increasing this improves macro detail but increases generation time
- **Palette Size**: Adjust ```PALETTE_SIZE``` (Default: 64). Reducing this (e.g., to 16) speeds up the process significantly.

### 3. Execution

Run the main script to start the generation process.
Note: The first run will automatically download the SDXL model from Hugging Face.

```python main.py```
